



## A Historical Review of Hierarchical Self Assembly

[[Erik Winfree]] in his thesis cites [Molecular Computation of Solutions to Combinatorial Problems](https://ubc.summon.serialssolutions.com/2.0.0/link/0/eLvHCXMwfV3NS8MwFH_ohqAH0alYp7NHPXQuTT8WmMoURZGB6O4lSZOLuk47D_73vqRpUWGe89qUvK-85uX3A6BhfxD8iQlCpiHPzZEZ45jjBE1M17vleeCh0smfVp1JfTXGdFnWIdLG7byQ5pf5WUioYVpK48v5e2A4pMxZa02owR3RQn5ODBzYKrQjY7wtaF89PI-floLyOuifH5dq-ilLaRKTX1mralw0XZS8xIXUFQPG8i2qTVW3W7Dp9pj-uDKKbVhRsw6sVayTXx3YmDRQrWUHtp13l_6Jg6A-3YH70Rv_eLmY1Ny5vrTkD1aLfqH9xmD9RWHGsLw2xTvasu8YasrRmX3FLkxvb6bXd4EjXQhkxNJFwKOcpoNcR0zoYaxFLLkmSaiZ1uj6KhEhE5JK9FaFpR5VkeADTTCmxlIxXKw9aM2KmdoHHxMdU3lKJMnzCIVQJuJUMqEEVknDyIN-vaaZdIDkhhfjNbOFSZhkTgmZU4IHJ80D8wqLY7norlVSIxcOh1ibMQ-OfimtGUeDpFibetCtlZg5Zy6zxtY8OG5G0QvN0QqfqeKzzIjZ5hDGlktgWUdT3E16sFfZRjO1--SDf6fuwrpFcTYNiOQQWouPT3VkkSJ60B5Prx-fe866e7at9RsGlwvm "Molecular Computation of Solutions to Combinatorial Problems"). This paper itself cites Feynman and his talk in 1959 about the idea of building microscopic computers. The following is a direct quote from [him](https://cc.ee.ntu.edu.tw/~thlin/Feynman_1959.pdf)


> [!quote] There's Plenty of Room at the Bottom
> I would like to describe a field, in which little has been done, but in which an enormous amount can be done in principle. This field is not quite the same as the others in that it will not tell us much of fundamental physics (in the sense of, "What are the strange particles?") but it is more like solid-state physics in the sense that it might tell us much of great interest about the strange phenomena that occur in complex situations. Furthermore, a point that is most important is that it would have an enormous number of technical applications. What I want to talk about is the problem of manipulating and controlling things on a small scale.
> 
> 
> I am not inventing antigravity, which is possible someday only if the laws are not what we think. I am telling you what could be done if the laws are what we think; we are not doing it simply because we haven't yet gotten around to it.
> 
> 
> Later, I would like to ask the question: Can the physicists do something about the third problem of chemistry—namely, synthesis? is there a physical way to synthesize any chemical substance?
> 
> 
> Consider the possibility that we too can make a thing very small, which does what we\ want—that we can manufacture an object that maneuvers at that level!
> 
> But there is plenty of room to make them smaller. There is nothing that I can see in the physical laws that says the computer elements cannot be made enormously smaller than they are now. In fact, there may be certain advantages.
> 
> 
> A friend of mine (Albert R. Hibbs) suggests a very interesting possibility for relatively small machines. He says that, although it is a very wild idea, it would be interesting in surgery if you could swallow the surgeon.
> 
> But it is interesting that it would be, in principle, possible (I think) for a physicist to synthesize any chemical substance that the chemist writes down. Give the orders and the physicist synthesizes it. How? Put the atoms down where the chemist says, and so you make the substance. The problems of chemistry and biology can be greatly helped if our ability to see what we are doing, and to do things on an atomic level, is ultimately developed—a development which I think cannot be avoided.




---
New thoughts --> Similar to the approach in [Molecular Computation of Solutions to Combinatorial Problems](https://media.proquest.com/media/hms/OBJ/nMsrS?hl=&cit%3Aauth=&cit%3Atitle=Molecular+computation+of+solutions+to+combinatorial+problems&cit%3Apub=Science&cit%3Avol=266&cit%3Aiss=5187&cit%3Apg=1021&cit%3Adate=Nov+11%2C+1994&ic=true&cit%3Aprod=ProQuest&_a=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%2BgIBToIDA1dlYooDHENJRDoyMDI1MDgxODIzNDM1MjYwNDo3NjU5NTE%3D&_s=gupNOZ3qtiJapvdEZ4Zc1rAOdok%3D#view=fitH&statusbar=1) in finding the Hamiltonian path problem, I am thinking of a similar encoding to solve the problem of orthogonal Latin squares ( #TODO ) because somewhere in the paper it says the appropriate encoding of the problem in the structure of the DNA and mixing appropriate amount of DNA, then every combination of the path will form in the solution. This reminds me of "multiplying" two Latin matrices.